toc
=================================

from <a href="api/mkdocs">mkdocs</a>.toc



Deals with generating the per-page table of contents. For the sake of simplicity we use an existing markdown extension to generate an HTML table of contents, and then parse that into the underlying da... [More...](#details)




### Public Class


[AnchorLink](api/mkdocs/toc/AnchorLink) 



[TableOfContents](api/mkdocs/toc/TableOfContents) 





### Public Function


def [post_process](#def-post_process)(html_content)



def [pre_process](#def-pre_process)(markdown_content)





### Protected Function


def [_parse_html_table_of_contents](#def-_parse_html_table_of_contents)(html)






Details
------------------
Deals with generating the per-page table of contents.

For the sake of simplicity we use an existing markdown extension to generate
an HTML table of contents, and then parse that into the underlying data.

The steps we take to generate a table of contents are:

* Pre-process the markdown, injecting a [TOC] marker.
* Generate HTML from markdown.
* Post-process the HTML, spliting the content and the table of contents.
* Parse table of contents HTML into the underlying data structure.


Functions
------------------







### `def _parse_html_table_of_contents(html)`




Given a table of contents string that has been automatically generated by
the markdown library, parse it into a tree of AnchorLink instances.

Returns a list of all the parent AnchorLink instances.





### `def post_process(html_content)`




Strip the generated HTML table of contents from the HTML output.

Returns a two-tuple of `(content, table_of_contents)`





### `def pre_process(markdown_content)`




Append a `[TOC]` marker to the markdown.
The `toc` extension injects the HTML table of contents here.



