# Deploying your docs

A basic guide to deploying your docs to various hosting providers

---

## GitHub Pages

If you host the source code for a project on [GitHub], you can easily use
[GitHub Pages] to host the documentation for your project. There are two basic
types of GitHub Pages sites: [Project Pages] sites, and [User and Organization
Pages] sites. They are nearly identical but have some important differences,
which require a different work flow when deploying.

### Project Pages

Project Pages sites are simpler as the site files get deployed to a branch
within the project repository (`gh-pages` by default). After you `checkout` the
primary working branch (usually `master`) of the git repository where you
maintain the source documentation for your project, run the following command:

```sh
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

That's it! Behind the scenes, MkDocs will build your docs and use the
[ghp-import] tool to commit them to the `gh-pages` branch and push the
`gh-pages` branch to GitHub.

Use `mkdocs gh-deploy --help` to get a full list of options available for the
`gh-deploy` command.

Be aware that you will not be able to review the built site before it is pushed
to GitHub. Therefore, you may want to verify any changes you make to the docs
beforehand by using the `build` or `serve` commands and reviewing the built
files locally.

!!! warning

    You should never edit files in your `gh-pages` branch by hand if you're
    using the `gh-deploy` command because you will lose your work.

### Organization and User Pages

User and Organization Pages sites are not tied to a specific project, and the
site files are deployed to the `master` branch in a dedicated repository named
with the GitHub account name. Therefore, you need working copies of two
repositories on our local system. For example, consider the following file
structure:

```no-highlight
my-project/
    mkdocs.yml
    docs/
orgname.github.io/
```

After making and verifying updates to your project you need to change
directories to the `orgname.github.io` repository and call the
`mkdocs gh-deploy` command from there:

```sh
cd ../orgname.github.io/
mkdocs gh-deploy --config-file ../my-project/mkdocs.yml --remote-branch master
```

Note that you need to explicitly point to the `mkdocs.yml` configuration file as
it is no longer in the current working directory. You also need to inform the
deploy script to commit to the `master` branch. You may override the default
with the [remote_branch] configuration setting, but if you forget to change
directories before running the deploy script, it will commit to the `master`
branch of your project, which you probably don't want.

Be aware that you will not be able to review the built site before it is pushed
to GitHub. Therefore, you may want to verify any changes you make to the docs
beforehand by using the `build` or `serve` commands and reviewing the built
files locally.

!!! warning

    You should never edit files in your pages repository by hand if you're
    using the `gh-deploy` command because you will lose your work.

[GitHub]: https://github.com/
[GitHub Pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[Project Pages]: https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages/#project-pages-sites
[User and Organization Pages]: https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages/#user-and-organization-pages-sites
[ghp-import]: https://github.com/davisp/ghp-import
[remote_branch]: ./configuration.md#remote_branch

## Read the Docs

[Read the Docs][rtd] offers free documentation hosting. You can import your docs
using any major version control system, including Mercurial, Git, Subversion,
and Bazaar. Read the Docs supports MkDocs out-of-the-box. Follow the
[instructions] on their site to arrange the files in your repository properly,
create an account and point it at your publicly hosted repository. If properly
configured, your documentation will update each time you push commits to your
public repository.

!!! note

    To benefit from all of the [features] offered by Read the Docs, you will need
    to use the [Read the Docs theme][theme] which ships with MkDocs. The various
    themes which may be referenced in Read the Docs' documentation are Sphinx
    specific themes and will not work with MkDocs.

[rtd]: https://readthedocs.org/
[instructions]: https://read-the-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html#in-markdown
[features]: http://read-the-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html
[theme]: /user-guide/styling-your-docs.md

## Other Providers

Any hosting provider which can serve static files can be used to serve
documentation generated by MkDocs. While it would be impossible to document how
to upload the docs to every hosting provider out there, the following guidelines
should provide some general assistance.

When you build your site (using the `mkdocs build` command), all of the files
are written to the directory assigned to the [site_dir] configuration option
(defaults to `"site"`) in your `mkdocs.yaml` config file. Generally, you will
simply need to copy the contents of that directory to the root directory of your
hosting provider's server. Depending on your hosting provider's setup, you may
need to use a graphical or command line [ftp], [ssh] or [scp] client to transfer
the files.

For example, a typical set of commands from the command line might look
something like this:

```sh
mkdocs build
scp -r ./site user@host:/path/to/server/root
```

Of course, you will need to replace `user` with the username you have with your
hosting provider and `host` with the appropriate domain name. Additionally, you
will need to adjust the `/path/to/server/root` to match the configuration of
your hosts' file system.

[ftp]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_Transfer_Protocol
[ssh]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell
[scp]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_copy

See your host's documentation for specifics. You will likely want to search
their documentation for "ftp" or "uploading site".

## 404 Pages

When MkDocs builds the documentation it will include a 404.html file in the
[build directory][site_dir]. This file will be automatically used when
deploying to [GitHub](#github-pages) but only on a custom domain. Other web
servers may be configured to use it but the feature won't always be available.
See the documentation for your server of choice for more information.

[site_dir]: ./configuration/#site_dir
